oh and now we snagged Neil Jenny for a
little chat
one of the things I wanted to ask you
about was bad painting you know you sort
of came to prominence with that shell
bad painting his bad painting still bad
I mean as it is in some places that
meeting was there that art was the
genesis of that painting was the
reaction to photo realism and I'm still
reacting to photo realism and that I
feel like I feel good let me just give
you short synopsis of my shirt Alice's
parties okay I feel that developers
should be an abstraction e-mail was an
existing side by side okay some people
think that abstract art is a creation of
the 20th century but the pyramids are
abstract art and of course you have the
pyramids and you have the head of Queen
Nefertiti next to me you can see I
should actually the agree with me and
its ultimate development we also see
that now
and an abstract building collection of
abstract decisions called the Parthenon
yes and then phidias inside the
Parthenon so you have it right the
realism existing side by side three
thousand years ago two thousand years
ago today I feel that the realist movie
today is provided by the issue of line I
really believe in the sanctity of line
there's two kinds of lying my analysis
you have one intuitive line and then you
have mechanical mechanical line this
line is drawn ok the compass yes how are
the camera ok I believe that
well let me make this example you could
ever move full of men with Robert shot
it all at the same name but at all the
different place and they'd all have a
different signature that I really
believe that their signature is really
them their mark is that represents them
in a most complete way so the sum of the
point is that I really dedicated to a to
Lauren and I think that's the real
division within the within the realest
woman today okay now do you still pay
attention to bad painting if the young
people they're doing bad painting now
are they have they actually broken the
line and gone into real bad painting are
they still doing okay I you know our
good art it's bad painting or I really
don't pay attention to what everybody
else is - okay good that takes too much
time
yes it is time consigning if they're
doing that mean
they're doing something that I went
through 40 years ago 41 years ago so I
really think that good food is where
it's at today I think that when I did
that painting I after was gone was
understood and someone successful I felt
I had more in me than just where do you
think that fits in with Kitsch this bad
painting in kitchens that's anonymous or
is that is that a different thing always
had contact the kinda keep the content
of kitsch that's basically superficial
and I always tried to avoid the
superficial content and the bad beans
that I do like I say it was reaction to
photo realism and the formula for photo
realism to my analysis was take a bad
idea and make it pretty in detailed
photo realism was essentially simply
second-generation pop so it's a little
late on both ends little late on the
philosophy a little late on the
technique I think
not that you shouldn't try to achieve
perfection it's just the issue I don't
believe you should achieve our attempt
to achieve perfection through the use of
machine I'll buy that so so I dedicated
to intuitive line yes the frames you
know I have a statement that paintings
are sculptured and basically that means
that all paintings exist as
three-dimensional art as objects yes
they have to survive sculpturally they
have to be successful that's one of the
reasons I think photos are less
competitive because photos are lousy
sculpture was originally designed at the
large section on the bottom and the
smaller section
and when I made it I painted it I had it
laying down on my table saw it kind of
flat in my studio and I came in in the
morning and I went there looks pretty
good and I said wait a minute
I'm looking at it upside down what it
did look good and so I looked at me
analyze this frame here is largest
section on the top and the smaller
section and I still take a look at it
again I said well you know a nice but
good upside down and so I technically at
wide experiences this painting is
essentially a look at you are going to
assume and when you look at the window
architecture that you notice is a long
time insulin
and the silk really okay I didn't
realize that that's why when I look at
this it feels confident it feels normal
because I'm accustomed to see the larger
little bit smaller so well that's also a
very abstract way of looking at it
you're looking at two rectangles sort of
embedded in each other so that's also
kind of an abstract side of it well
thanks for your explanation and
congratulations on the show thanks for
taking some time to talk to us all Thank
You Neal Jenny thanks
you